
# Elastos Philippines

Elastos Philippines was formed when Elastos visited Manila in October 2018 to attend Blockchain Fair Asia, host a meetup, and meet with other local and foreign blockchain personalities. Now robust and rapidly growing, Elastos Philippines is a group of organizers and evangelists who are hard at work seeding new communities throughout the Philippines. Elastos Philippines is headed by Lead Organizer Krisha Amada, who graduated with a Bachelor’s of Science in Computer Science at STI College Global City at age 20.  She has since interned at Cognizant Technology Solutions, a BPO company, and performed research for a US-based cryptocurrency investor. She is joined by Senior Partnerships Manager Alex Timbol, an economist by training and an accomplished sales and marketing veteran who last worked as an Institutional Stockbroker with various firms  since 1990, and also spent 8 years pursuing passions in tech-voc education and startups.

The Elastos Philippines community has been one of Elastos’ most active CR Regions, with monthly attendance at events, hackathon teams, and booth-hosting at a variety of blockchain events, including the DISH 2019 Hackathon and Blockchain Innovation Tour 2019. The group is especially active in the academic domain, and has organized and attended events on both its own behalf and that of Elastos at the University of the Philippines Diliman, FEU Institute of Technology, Universidad de Manila, and others. As the Philippines is home to a great deal of technically savvy students and professionals, Elastos Philippines provides great exposure to developers from both universities and industry alike. Through its efforts, the community aims to bring in skilled developers to produce a batch of fresh Dapps in the Elastos ecosystem. To support these goals, Elastos Philippines will be co-hosting developer workshops alongside Elastos to supplement its other event work.

