## Comparisons to Other Blockchain Projects

### Brief Summary

The key to Elastos is to prohibit the App / service in the sandbox from sending any network packets. The reason is that Elastos Runtime doesn’t provide Socket interface or any network port, but rather uses metadata driven remoting, then Runtime automatically generates RPC to complete the sandbox connection. Network data transmissions between the personal clouds on each mobile terminal have their own unique “network operator’s new operating systems” to bear. Applications and services are not allowed to send IP data packets. Since it is not possible to send IP data packets, it is very difficult to initiate DDoS(Distributed Denial of Service) network attacks.

In addition, Elastos Runtime does not leave any opportunity for the application to access the POSIX interface of the underlying physical machine, such as the Java Native Interface (JNI), so a virus has no way to invade the computer.

Elastos Runtime also forbids applications from directly accessing the network, so network attacks such as DDoS are even more impossible. From a security perspective, this is a very meticulous design.

>We don’t consider Elastos as Bitcoin’s competitor because we are co-mining coins with Bitcoin. We don’t consider Elastos as Ethereum’s or Neo's competitor either, because in the future, some Elastos’ websites will also be based on the consensus and the smart contracts, which may also support Ethereum/Neo smart contracts. It’s just like developing a web. Some people are willing to develop with Java, some prefer C language. Some prefer English and some prefer Chinese. We won’t have any restrictions on what they want to choose. We will support all of these.

### Elastos v Ethereum

* Elastos Runtime is kind of like Ethereum’s EVM. It’s mainly for running DApps. And Ethereum’s EVM is for running smart contracts. The difference is that the smart contract is run on the nodes of the blockchain while DApps are running on mobile phones and other user terminals. In general terms, Runtime is called the App Sandbox, which is the application sandbox. It’s for avoiding viruses, privacy leaking, and network attack from the applications. So the sandbox is here to determine what the application should do or should not do.
* Ethereum has one single mainchain structure which leads to the upper limit of computing power and extensibility. Data transaction speed is limited by the individual node in the chain, though there are thousands of computation nodes. It is practically impossible to satisfy various needs in the future by only one chain. Elastos proposes to adopt a flexible main chain and sidechain blockchain design structure. The main chain is only responsible for basic transactions and payments while the sidechain executes smart contracts to support various applications and services.
* Ethereum has data redundancy and network congestion. The setting that smart contracts are exposed to DApps and all the data and code are placed on the mainchain leads to data redundancy in main storage. Now the scale of Ethereum data exceeds that of Bitcoin, while network congestions have occurred. Elastos runs applications on Elastos runtime as opposed to the already congested blockchain. This method is more secure. All network data must be sent through a trustable and verifiable channel. Identification and authentication come from the blockchain ID. This way, the blockchain's credibility can be transferred to Elastos Runtime. Elastos Runtime can have various forms like an independent OS, a virtual machine, or a software development kit(SDK) that integrates into native apps of other mainstream Operating Systems.
* Ethereum has data exposure risk. After obtaining data, DApps are run at the user frontend, causing possible data exposure. Elastos has safety is at the core, decentralized applications are forbidden from accessing the network so they are not subject to DDoS attacks. There is also no need for IP addresses so users are far less likely to get hacked.
* Ethereum has EVM, which supports smart contracts. According to the whitepaper of Ethereum, EVM can’t be used to develop non-financial or non-record keeping applications. So games like Cryptokitties are running off the chain, not on Ethereum’s chain. That is to say that in fact, Ethereum’s smart contracts are like the programs within a hard drive or the macro in Excel, or the store procedure in a database, which means, the database or Excel is programmable. So Ethereum’s applications are not true DApps but rather hybrid DApps. A lot of people confuse smart contracts with Dapps, which is not rigorous. 

---

### Elastos v EOS

* EOS is a platform. The key part of an operating system is whether it provides an operating environment for all applications. The EOS platform system does not provide an operating environment, but by providing an interface it can use such functionality. The idea of the EOS project is to provide interfaces, so it is a platform line of thinking. On the other hand, Elastos provides an operating environment. This is the most essential difference. One can think of it this way: an application can’t run on a pure EOS platform because EOS does not provide an operating environment, but when EOS is combined with Android or iOS, it can provide an interface for the application to run. Then the application can run. Elastos, however, does not need to work with Android or iOS to run. It is completely monolithic. Elastos is currently the only one in the world that is building a distributed trusted operating system, based on trusted attributes and an independent operating environment. This is why such an operating system can hold large-scale Dapp applications.
* EOS is dependent on its main-chain, so no matter how optimized it becomes, its throughput is limited. Elastos can extend the throughput infinitely with flexible main-chain and sidechain solution. Also, Elastos Runtime can deliver the trust function of the blockchain to a user’s application(like a cell phone, laptop, etc) which applies the blockchain to various scenarios in daily life.
* EOS, through the adoption of the delegated proof of stake(DPoS)consensus mechanism, can realize high throughput rate. Elastos computation bandwidth is distributed according to the number of tokens held. It refers to the design philosophy of time sliced distribution in the traditional multi-task Operating System and encourages the community to hold tokens. The main-chain design focuses on improving extensibility for smooth access to sidechain. The consensus mechanism on the sidechain can be anything(from DPoS to DBFT to anything else).
* EOS runs everything utilizing main chain for everything. Elastos services on the Elastos blockchain layer can be shared by multiple side chains. This greatly lowers the mainchain pressure. When necessary, the sidechain can be duplicated to extend sidechain-level service capability through bifurcation mechanism, while the extension of this computing power can be infinite.
* In the traditional blockchain, if one-time transaction for demonstrating 50% of the nodes is real, then the next transaction operation will be considered real no matter if it is true or not. Therefore, relatively speaking, EOS still relies on the underlying operating system. If an application has a large installation capacity, it can become treacherous at any time (50% of hacker operations are to make false transactions seem like real transactions). However, the solution from Elastos will not have this kind of problem. Elastos will set up each terminal device as a “personal cloud peripheral,” such that each individual is at a remote external link device. There is strict control of which external peripherals are not allowed to access the Internet. That is, these devices can only operate in their own cloud computing environment. An individual can browse websites, chat, listen to music, watch videos, but can not broadcast to other people’s external peripherals.
* First, we know that EOS is using an SDK called Web Assembly, which is a standard agreed upon by browser publishers such as Microsoft, Apple, and Google. It’s not provided by EOS. Huawei didn’t make the operating system. Google made it. In other words, EOS didn’t make the operating system because it doesn’t have an SDK. On the other hand, Elastos does provide an operating system so it provides the original SDK for developers to use. EOS is only a computer, a dedicated computer. It can be used for bookkeeping but it can’t support an ecosystem.

---

### Elastos v Blockstack

* Blockstack combines encrypted, distributed storage and blockchain ID to make sure all the data belongs to the owner. Elastos applies a similar method for digital assets storage where users could apply for an ID for their digital assets on the blockchain, which guarantees the ownership of those digital contents but a key differentiation with blockstack is that the ownership of these digital contents will also be transferable and tradable, thereby making these digital assets consumable and investable and of high value, thereby contributing to a smart economy of trading digital goods. Even though the digital assets are decrypted, they cannot escape elastos runtime operating environment which guarantees that it will never disclose or damage the ownership of the digital contents.
* Blockstack saves encrypted data files in the cloud and hash stamps for these files are put on the blockchain as a proof mechanism but doing this is a trade-off between high credibility, low efficiency of blockchain and low credibility, high efficiency of traditional storage. Elastos has its P2P network layer called Elastos Carrier that focuses on making the Elastos blockchain cluster chain service integrated into the same network as the Elastos runtime thereby unifying the services with DApps so both the data and the ID of digital assets can have high credibility along with high efficiency for blockchain storage

---

### Useful Resources

* [Elastos Deep-Dive: The most comprehensive differences and similarities between Elastos and EOS and how they're solving two very different problems](https://medium.com/elastos/elastos-deep-dive-by-huobi-news-special-journalist-4e601bc963a5)
* [Bit University Q&A with Rong Chen - The Operating system is like a country: Comparison with EOS](https://medium.com/elastos/bit-university-q-a-with-rong-chen-the-operating-system-is-like-a-country-6bc360699c1a)